# Recipe and Ingredient Management App Vision Statement
The Recipe and Ingredient Management App (RIMA) facilitates a quick and convenient way to create or follow recipes. RIMA will come with preloaded recipes and the users can additionally add their recipes to the database. RIMA combines the numerous functionalities of similar apps, while also improving upon these features according to user feedback. Its key functionalities include the ability to search for recipes according to the user’s ingredient of choice, or the user can search for the recipe and it will provide the required ingredients.

The app will feature a management system for a user’s recipes where recipes are shown in a searchable list. The user can remove recipes from the list and add them from websites, the app, or manually. The user can also edit a recipe’s information and assign what categories the recipe may belong to for search filtering and list organization. Upon selecting a recipe from the list, the user will be able to additionally view a list of the ingredients used in the recipe and the amounts of each ingredient required by the recipe, how much food the recipe makes, and the recipe’s instructions. The user can also view the approximate cost and nutritional information of the recipe based on the ingredients the recipe uses.

The app also features a household ingredient management system where ingredients the user currently has are shown in a searchable list. The user can remove, add, and edit ingredients in the list and assign what categories the ingredient may belong to for search filtering and list organization. Each item in the list can show the ingredient’s name, expiration date, cost, and nutritional information. The user can also view a calendar with the expiration dates of the ingredients, can choose to be notified of when an ingredient expires and can view a separate list of expired ingredients that can be added to a shopping list.

The app will also feature a shopping list where the user can manually enter items or add them from the ingredient or expired items list. The app will also be able to suggest recipes based on the ingredients the user has and their expiration dates. The user will also be able to enter dietary restrictions and preferences and the suggested recipes will further align with those requirements.

Our app provides the ingredients needed for thousands of dishes available in our database from all around the world, including French, American, Japanese, Chinese, Italian, and all other great traditional food cultures. It provides restaurants with useful information on cost estimates of the ingredients for their dishes, alongside its nutritional information. It organizes the backend information for them so that they will be able to focus more on providing their customers with better services. The restaurants will be able to order ingredients based on our app’s suggestions, and potentially compare prices in-between different food chain providers to ensure the best deals available to them.
 
The app also allows its users to search by the ingredients they have available and provide them with available dishes from all around the world based on the ingredients they have. This allows easy decisions for parents and home cooks and provides them with detailed cooking tutorials of the dishes they select based on their ingredients and budgets. It decides the dishes to make based on what’s available so that parents no longer have to try to plan what’s ahead and save efforts from the already mind-blowing daily life.

RIMA will be a significant improvement over the conventional ways to search for recipes. By combining the features of similar apps, RIMA provides a consistent interface to the user, reducing the time required to find a suitable recipe. Overall, RIMA expedites the process of finding a suitable recipe and enhances the cooking experience.

We consider this project a success when we dominate the food recipe market, as well as the health category in app stores. As well, dominating food nutritional information websites will be a big win for us. We have strong faith and belief in our app to provide the best experience for both the restaurants and food providers, as well as home cooks and parents.
